Simeon Ivanov (born 31 March 1988 in Varna) is a Bulgarian racing driver who competed in Formula Renault 2.0 and World Series by Renault in 2007. His racing career started very late, at the age of 15 (2004). However, he managed to win both the Bulgarian Karting Championship in 2005 and twice the South East European Karting Championship in 2004 and 2005. He was also promoted twice the Best Bulgarian Racing Driver award in the two years in which he raced in national championships. Now he is racing for Boila Automotor Sport in Bulgarian Rally and Rallysprint championship.
Simeon started his karting career at the age of 15. He won his first podium in his first race and the first win only two races later. In 2004 (his first full year as a racing driver) he raced in two karting championships - Bulgarian and South East European. Despite numerous technical problems he became the first karting champion of South East Europe and got second place in the national championship in class KF2. At the end of the season all racing teams voted Simeon Ivanov to become the holder of the Best Racing Driver award.
Simeon Ivanov in the 2006 Italian Open Masters at La Conca Circuit
2005 was even more successful for the Bulgarian pilot. He completed a total of 14 races in the Bulgarian Karting Championship and the South East European Championship, scoring 12 pole positions, 13 wins and one 2nd position. He won both Championship titles and was again promoted for the Best Bulgarian Racing Driver. In the end of the year, Ivanov toke part in the Kerpen Winter Cup, Germany. He raced partnered by CRG Holland team. After finishing 4th and 2nd in the two semifinals, he was pushed off the racing track at the final but still managed to get to the podium in fifth place.
In 2006 Simeon raced together with CRG Holland in the Italian Open Masters and at the Lonato Winter Cup. The top result of the season was reaching the finals at the Lonato race out of 140 racing drivers. At the end of the year, Ivanov made his first Formula Renault 2.0 test.
After completing tests for CO2 Racing and Prema Powerteam during the winter season, Simeon Ivanov finally signed a contract with BVM Minardi to race a complete 2007 season in Formula Renault 2.0 Italian Championship and 3 races in Formula Renault 2.0 European Championship. The Bulgarian pilot achieved top 3 results in several of the pre-season tests in Italy. His top finish during the season was at ACI Vallelunga Circuit, Italy - 9th out of 38 racing drivers. Throughout the year, he scored a total of 27 championship points.
After the end of the 2007 season, Simeon Ivanov signed a contract with Prema Powerteam to take part in the World Series by Renault official testing days at the Circuit Paul Ricard.
After the tests in Paul Ricard, Simeon decided to put an end on his racing career. He continued his undergraduate education in the United Kingdom.
